Essay for IMAD project 
1200 – 1500 words

MY History App
This history app that I have created was created for a fun and educational purpose for learners and anybody interested in learning about famous people who have passed away at a certain age they decide to choose. This was for anybody to have fun with as well and bring joy when they get their desired output. This was a good learning experience for me and for the people wanting to use the app.
This app was not only to bring entertainment but also for educational purposes. Many people are always curious of when their favourite famous person died or had just come to the realization that somebody died, and they would like to know when these people had passed away. The age group for the people who have passed are between the ages of 20 to 100. This just has more variety and is more relevant. There were a lot of Historical figures in the app that are mentioned. For example, from recently, Mathew Perry died at the age of 54 in his swimming pool or to even the greatest boxers of all time Muhammed Ali.
The designs that went into building this app were very specific and relevant for this app. With the beige type of colour and historical type picture, it just adds relevance for this history themed app. The colour will  attract people also with the Maroon/Purple coloured buttons which stand out amongst the other colours.
The purpose of this app is meant to help people with school projects and more educational purposes but just as well for people to mess around with and learn on the side. It is a very useful app as it will help people a lot and also with its very easy use. People will not have to open google and type in a long sentence to get their answers, all they have to do is type a number in the top box and they will be able to get their answer they are looking for instantly. 
The coding and making of this app took a while but was worth it to get everything working. There were different ways to get the coding to work but I could only get one of them to successfully read my code and help me get answers. And that was with the if else statement. With the different fonts and text styles also created a more enjoyable experience and will help people be more intrigued with the app and will have more fun using it. 
Having a good display and visualizations on the app will help attract people and make them more attracted. So, if you have a boring colour with no nice fonts or anything people will not be attracted. That is why I went for a more attractive appearance, and this will help people have a more enjoyable experience. 
My overall time it took me to create an enjoyable experience for people who use my app was about a week. There were a lot of errors I was getting in my coding and took a while to come up  with new or correct the current codes I had. I used YouTube and past class activities to work out my code and get it to work. 
As I was making this app, I had an over all enjoyable experience and I myself learnt a lot from the coding and creating and designing of the app to learning about famous people who were lost at certain ages. Some of these celebrities had a calm passing, while others had a more hectic shocking death to the world. From me learning this I enjoyed learning about people and their deaths and I am sure many other people will be curious to learn as well. 
I was making progress everyday while creating this app. As I work better in smaller quantities and that way can spread myself out to learn more. Each day as I was making progress, I made reports and logged all the progress I was learning and all the information I was taking in. 
So, I made all my coding and app in android studio and all my progress was made there. I then took it to GitHub. The app did not always run with the emulator but did with the blue stacks app. There were a few crashes with the app, and it happened every second day. But there were no errors, and the app does run well. From my past experiences running the app I can assure it works and will be fun  for a lot of people. 
I have a ReadMe file that includes my history app along with all its coding as well as my essay and description of everything and my YouTube video with my voice over.  In the video I describe how I made the code and I go step by step in creating everything and coming up with my ideas. 
 
In this picture we have here, it was used to be my background and theme of my app. As my app was completely based on history and past people who have walked this earth, it seemed relevant to go with this picture as my background for my app. 
I had to use GitHub to submit my project. When I first opened up the app I had to create a new account. After I created a new account, I had to create a new folder and then a readme file. I had to copy and paste my coding and my designer interface in the folder. After I had done my user interface and copied and pasted that I had to copy and paste my essay into the readme file from word. In the essay I just explained what was happening. After that I had created my video. In my video representation I just explained how my app works and where everything is. It took a while for me to upload the video onto GitHub. From all these files on GitHub I used them all to submit on the varsity college website.          
The font I used for my app was Amita themed font. This was only used for my top heading as it captures and brings to life the relevance and scroll like font. Back in the day people wrote in a fancy type of way and this Amita type font I extracted from google was necessary. 
The referencing for the coding and the use of my app is at the bottom of the coding or underneath. This was just to show where I got my ideas from. I mostly achieved and gained my ideas from class doing the activities or I looked at some examples on YouTube. 
So, to come to conclusion this was an overall fun experience for me. I learnt a lot about the history of some people who were in this world, and I learnt a lot from making this app. History is a great way for people to learn and I believe it brings people together. The learners and anybody wanting to learn from this app will learn a lot and will be able to have so much fun at the same time. It took a while to create but it was better to be patient and learn and to try make as few mistakes as possible.

[ Words : 1230 ]


